process: “reflection on, in, through, before, after, within... action?”The project began as a critical and speculative propositional investigation, with no particular final prototype in mind; rather it was structured as an inquisitive process, open to the variables discovered as means of investigation and information. The project was rooted within a cross- disciplinary practice in design, performativity and choreography to explore the choreographed sensory experiences and gestures found within the interaction of body to chair. Sensory experiences and interactions challenged by possible interfacial adaptations and negotiations between an organic body and artificial materiality.The project was divided into a set of individual yet overlapping experimental “multi- sited” (Marcus, 1995) research studies; multi-sited as “designed around chains, paths, threads, conjunctions and juxtapositions of locations” where by “the object of study may itself not be known before but emerges based on the links and associations assembled” (Salter, 2015,12). Such studies as means to approach questions of embodiment and somatic experiences from varying practices, perspectives, methods and technologies that engage with, on and through the body. A somaesthetic practice, as inspired by Richard Shusterman, in Thinking Through the Body, as means of active embodied and perceptual engagement, taking “the material body seriously as a valuable dimension of human experience and knowledge,” (2012, 3).Four studies were conducted: 1. movement analysis 2. photographic/video observations 3. digital renderings and 4. data visualization. Each study provided insight, yet profound limitations and problematics through creative/practiced approaches, and observational reflections of the findings.movement analysis : “performative anti-design?” 2
Through movement analysis, the study of human movement, inspired by the theoretical and philosophical work of Rudolf Van Laban, whose characteristic perception of body movement as: action (what), space (where), and effort (how), he analyses the visual organization of movement (Susan S.W. & Dils, A. 2008). Such method of study and practice provides a means in which to recognize and engage the significance of the research body: in this case an acutely-aware dancers body as the instrument of qualitative investigations with characteristic of its own.Beginning with movement analysis, I decided to initiate this research directly with the experiences of the soma’s engagement with a chair. What, where and how does my body move with and against a chair? Bringing forth an embodied philosophy that brings the “real body to thought through somatic style and behaviour, demonstrating one’s philosophy through one's own bodily example and manner of living,” (Shusterman, 2012, 4). For the first study I choreographically explored the various spatial, material and active negotiations of my body with a simple, generic, plastic, foldable chair. An exercise not far from our daily interactions and choreographies of sitting on a chair, it curiously brought into reflective awareness the invisible, unseen and continuously unfolding “interfacial interactions” of the soma in relation to the material artifact (Herbert, 1996).The various questions present at the time of investigation were: What is the level of adaptability between human and chair, as two agents interacting within system of movement? How does the body behave in relation to an unresponsive non human agent? Who adapts to whom?