On the other hand, unfolding interactional behaviours that are limited and as noted by Hoddler; “superficial” in their encounter with props rather than co-producers (2012, 38), thing-props that encourage us to be prompted by them and not them prompted by us. Herbert questions the fulfilment and purposive qualities of these artificial props, in which the inner environment (the chair) is appropriate to the goal of the outer environment (my body); and the only though adaptation will the artifact serve its intended purpose (1996, 6). “The character of the artifact, and the environment in which the artifact performs,” (Herbert 1996, 6) are the components of the chair agent, that  3
concern the “interactions and affordances between things in relation to task or goal” (Hoddler, 2012, 55); ie. how it (the chair) may contribute to our way of being human through motion.Peter Opsvik (2009) highlights the enormous repertoire of sitting postures that the human body is able to command; thus “why did standardization committees around the world choose a single sitting posture as the starting point for their standards?” (19). Sitting on a chair has become one of the most dominating parts of our everyday lives, (Opsvik, 2009), where the act of sitting is historically rooted within industrialized ideologies of efficiency, standardization and functionality (25). Such monotonous practices of embodiment and somatic performativity in which our bodies are constrained within, have significantly altered and affected our evolving bodies.In parallel to a physical observation, the notion of theatricality became very interesting within this study, as the series of gestures performed exponentially grew from realistic, minimal and generative, to absurd and un-practiced by “average” chair users. Beginning with simple positions of sitting on a chair, one can understand my body’s attempt to negotiate and find comfort with the object, but as the video progresses I begin to find and express displeasure with the chair. A displeasure that leads the body to absurd and impossible negotiations, as seen in the three images below. Negotiations that fall outside of ‘ergonomically correct’ postures and engagements.


It is this notion of theatrically that only became apparent during a reflection of the video, where at the time of experimentation, this purposive corporal theatricality was not a conscious choice. Perhaps these choices grew out of the limitations encountered in the moment, engaging with a type of reflection in action (Shön, 2008), through a subconscious process. Where by my dancer body was frustrated with the limitability of the chair in its ability to exchange and improvise with my gestures, such that the choreography of interaction was driven to a heightened theatrical expression:    4
Eukinetics (Laban, 1947). Eukinetics as the “temporal and dynamic occurrences within the rendering of expression” (Maletic, 1987, 98), observed in this study through exaggerated rebellious seating postured. Exaggerated movements that explore Laban’s sequence of time, strength of force and extension in space as the synchronized components that compose somatic expression. Opsvik (2009) challenges the narrow dictations played out by the designer, or in other words the limitability of eukinetic expression through his philosophy of practice:“Allow the body to decide for itself as far as possible in terms of the desire for changes in posture. Rather than giving the body a hard time, forcing it to try to adapt to the whims of the designer, it must surely be the designer’s job to make it as easy as possible for people to follow the signals of their bodies – and perhaps even inspire them to do so,” (39).In particular these rebellious theatrical movements provide curious insight into unexplored embodied intuitions, occurring during body-material interaction. Embodied and cognitive choices that one may question: are they only pertinent to a dancer body? Would these performative and theatrical choices apply to individuals with less (not inferior, rather less exposed) body consciousness? What if the chair objects allowed for these types of negotiations? Negotiations of which it is not, only the body whom must adjust, rather a mutual improvisation and interaction between both actors. Would an interfacial and responsive chair object give rise to a heightened proprioceptive awareness in any user? Such experimentation demonstrates the multiple corporal variabilities that the body must resort to in regards to the static chair object. An object that across all physical variations and attempts for the body to find comfort and expression the chair maintains an affirmative, static language and thus imposed agency on the body and its somatic intuition.